How to release PS, part 1 (#624)
PrestaShop/docs: src/content/1.7/release/release-a-new-version-of-prestashop.md

5. Activate multiple settings in PrestaShop Addons system so the PrestaShop API allows the new version of PrestaShop to download modules adapted to it
6. Activate multiple settings in PrestaShop Internationalization API so it allows the new version of PrestaShop to download localization packs
7. Update the XML stream being used by auto-upgrade module to monitor what versions of PrestaShop are available
8. Create new Docker images for the new version

## 1. Checks some manual procedures

Please check that:
* all license headers are correct
* all controllers are secured by annotations, and legacy link are present
  * `php bin/console prestashop:linter:security-annotation`
  * `php bin/console prestashop:linter:legacy-link`
* there are no known vulnerabilities in composer dependencies
  * `php bin/console security:check`
* for minor and major releases, check @todo annotations in modern code
* all new hooks are registered
* check that generated FOS JSON routing file is up-to-date
  * `php bin/console fos:js-routing:dump --format=json --target=admin-dev/themes/new-theme/js/fos_js_routes.json`
* new native modules are integrated into composer.json and composer.lock

>   * `composer outdated -D prestashop/*`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * `composer outdated -D "prestashop/*"`
```

it wasn't working for me w/o `"`

* nightly builds are green
  * https://nightly.prestashop.com/
* latest docker image runs
  * https://github.com/PrestaShop/docker
  * https://hub.docker.com/r/prestashop/prestashop/
* assets are build
  * `./tools/assets/build.sh`

## 2. (re)Make a build

Before the build, the Changelog file, the Contributors file and translations are actually managed by the PrestaShop company. 

If you want to create a new version of PrestaShop from its branch `1.7.6.x`, here is the process:

1. Clone the repository, checkout the branch
  * `git clone git@github.com:PrestaShop/PrestaShop.git`
2. Update the code to acknowledge the new version:

>  - update version number in files `app/AppKernel.php` and `nstall-dev/install_version.php` (see the 1.7.6.6 [example](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/19980))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - update version number in files `app/AppKernel.php` and `install-dev/install_version.php` (see the 1.7.6.6 [example](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/19980))
```

---
title: Release a new version of PrestaShop
weight: 4
---

# Release a new version of PrestaShop

## Overview

What does it mean, "to release a new version of "PrestaShop" ? Actually many different answers are eligible.

You could say that "a new version of PrestaShop is released when there is a new release on the GitHub repository". Or you could say "a new version of PrestaShop is released when I can download a new version on prestashop.com". You could also say "a new version of PrestaShop is released when the auto-upgrade module allows to upgrade to this new version".

> So we should first put some words on all of these statements, to avoid any confusion.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
So let's first put some words on all of these statements, to avoid any confusion.
```

> When we release a new version on PrestaShop:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Steps to create a new version of PrestaShop is released:
```

Reviewer 4: This sentence looks weird :thinking:

Reviewer 3: Ah yes you are right.
```suggestion
Steps to release a new version of PrestaShop:
```

> 1. we create a new Build of PrestaShop, which is a ZIP archive which contains the software
> 2. we make it available on GitHub as a GitHub release, and tag the branch used for the build to mark the exact code commit corresponding to this build
> 3. we make it available on prestashop.com as a downloadable ZIP archive
> 4. we activate multiple settings in PrestaShop Addons system so the PrestaShop API allows the new version of PrestaShop to download modules adapted to it
> 5. we activate multiple settings in PrestaShop Internationalization API so it allows the new version of PrestaShop to download localization packs
> 6. we update the XML stream being used by auto-upgrade module to monitor what versions of PrestaShop are available
> 7. we create new Docker images for the new version

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Create a new Build of PrestaShop, which is a ZIP archive which contains the software
2. Make it available on GitHub as a GitHub release, and tag the branch used for the build to mark the exact code commit corresponding to this build
3. Make it available on prestashop.com as a downloadable ZIP archive
4. Activate multiple settings in PrestaShop Addons system so the PrestaShop API allows the new version of PrestaShop to download modules adapted to it
5. Activate multiple settings in PrestaShop Internationalization API so it allows the new version of PrestaShop to download localization packs
6. Update the XML stream being used by auto-upgrade module to monitor what versions of PrestaShop are available
7. Create new Docker images for the new version
```

> ## 1. Make a build

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## 1. (re)Make a build
```
The purpose is also to remake a build of a version from the same tag and check if there are differences, in order to people to be sure that we don't add anything, or that this is repeatable. (trust and confidence)

If you want to create a new version of PrestaShop from its branch `1.7.6.x`, here is the process:

1. Clone the repository, checkout the branch
2. Update the code to acknowledge the new version:
 - update version number in files `app/AppKernel.php` and `nstall-dev/install_version.php` (see the 1.7.6.6 [example](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/19980))
 - update the Changelog file `docs/CHANGELOG.txt` and the `CONTRIBUTORS.md` files with new content and new contributors (see the 1.7.6.6 [example](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/20032))
3. Use the embedded CLI [PrestaShop Release Creator](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/blob/develop/tools/build/README.md) to create the ZIP archive

Example of Release Creator usage: `php tools/build/CreateRelease.php --version="1.7.6.6"`

This allows you to create a new ZIP archive which contains the software. It can be installed and run, however the installation process might be unable to download new language packs and download any modules from Addons if the Addons and Translation systems do not acknowledge this version.

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you want to remake the build of a release for comparison and repeatability purpose, ..
```
Not sure how to finish this sentence: "checkout the same tag that has been used", or something like that? what do you think?

> 

Author: ```suggestion

If you want to remake the build of a release for comparison and repeatability purpose, make sure you checkout the very same git commit, as the Release Creator will use it to build the code. You can find it on [the repository GitHub tags list](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/tags).

```

## 2. Make a new version on GitHub

> You need first to merge into the GitHub branch the work you have carried out for the Build: updating the version number and modifying Changelog and Contributors files.

Reviewer 3: via a pull request ?

Author: Via a pull request indeed
```suggestion
You need first to merge (using a Pull Request) into the GitHub branch the work you have carried out for the Build: updating the version number and modifying Changelog and Contributors files.
```

When it is merged, tag the last commit on this branch (not the merge commit, but rather the one before).

> Open GitHub and go to ["Releases" page](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/releases), click "Draft a new release".

Reviewer 3: Only maintainers have rights to do that, right?

Author: For our repository, yes. Someone who forked the repository can create such releases on his repository.

Reviewer 3: See my suggestion for the beginning of this section, then.

- use the tag you created as a target
- use the Changelog as description
- attach the ZIP archive

And publish the new release !

## 3. Make a new version on prestashop.com

> This information is private to PrestaShop company, but we can say it is simply a form where you input the version number and upload the new ZIP archive.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This information is private to PrestaShop company, but we can say it is simply a form where we input the version number and upload the new ZIP archive.
```
here, the use of "we" is justified.

## 4. Configure Addons API for the new version

This information is private, but we can say it is simply a series of steps to create some artifacts which, when configured properly, allow the Addons API to serve modules for the new version.

> ## 5. Configure Internationalization API for the new version

Reviewer 3: Is there a link that we can add to explain how to build the localization packs from Crowdin?
Of course, the part about our API should stay secret, but if we can provide the more possible information about that part, it would be great.

Author: That's a big story 😄  I will try to add it later. It's a huge process and I am not sure I have all the keys.

This information is private, but we can say it is simply a series of steps to create some artifacts which, when configured properly, allow the Internationalization API to serve localization packs for the new version.

## 6. Update XML stream to allow auto-upgrade module to perform upgrades to the new version

> This information is private, but we can say it is a simple update of a XML document.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It is a simple update of a XML document. Once updated, the auto-upgrade module will refresh it and will be aware of the new version.
```
Of course this is private, but there is not real mystery here ;-)

Author: ```suggestion
It is a simple update of a XML document. Once updated, the [auto-upgrade module](https://github.com/PrestaShop/autoupgrade/) is able to parse it and acknowledge the new available version.
```

## 7. Create Docker images for the new version

1. Checkout the [project](https://github.com/PrestaShop/docker) and create a new branch

> 2. Modify the following files:

Author: ```suggestion
2. Modify the following files (see [this PR as example](https://github.com/PrestaShop/docker/pull/225)):
```

 - `versions.txt` - in which you add the new version

>  - `versions<major version>.txt` - the new release must be added at the end of the file

Reviewer 3: example of how to write it?

Author: I added it line 73

 - update the Changelog file `docs/CHANGELOG.txt` and the `CONTRIBUTORS.md` files with new content and new contributors (see the 1.7.6.6 [example](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/20032))
3. Use the embedded CLI [PrestaShop Release Creator](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/blob/develop/tools/build/README.md) to create the ZIP archive

Example of Release Creator usage: `php tools/build/CreateRelease.php --version="1.7.6.6"`

This allows you to create a new ZIP archive which contains the software. It can be installed and run, however the installation process might be unable to download new language packs and download any modules from Addons if the Addons and Translation systems do not acknowledge this version.

If you want to remake the build of a release for comparison and repeatability purpose, make sure you checkout the very same git commit, as the Release Creator will use it to build the code. You can find it on [the repository GitHub tags list](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/tags).

## 2. Make a new version on GitHub

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

Of course, only maintainers of the project have the rights to create a new version the GitHub organisation of the PrestaShop open source project. But, someone who forked the repository can create such a release on his own repository. This can be a good way to learn the process, or to reproduce the release for studying purpose.
```

Author: ```suggestion

Only maintainers of the project are granted rights to create new GitHub versions on the PrestaShop repository. However someone who forked the repository can create such a release on his own repository. This can be n opportunity to learn the process, or to reproduce the release for studying purposes.

```

> You need first to merge (using a Pull Request) into the GitHub branch the work you have carried out for the Build: updating the version number and modifying Changelog and Contributors files.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The first step is to merge (using a Pull Request) into the GitHub branch the work you have carried out for the Build: updating the version number and modifying Changelog and Contributors files.
```

---
title: Release a new version of PrestaShop
weight: 4
---

# Release a new version of PrestaShop

## Overview

What does it mean, "to release a new version of "PrestaShop" ? Actually many different answers are eligible.

You could say that "a new version of PrestaShop is released when there is a new release on the GitHub repository". Or you could say "a new version of PrestaShop is released when I can download a new version on prestashop.com". You could also say "a new version of PrestaShop is released when the auto-upgrade module allows to upgrade to this new version".

So let's first put some words on all of these statements, to avoid any confusion.

Steps to release a new version of PrestaShop:

> 1. Create a new Build of PrestaShop, which is a ZIP archive which contains the software

Author: > the software + compiled assets (js, css) + third party dependencies (js, php)

This is my definition of "the software" 😄  but indeed what "software" exactly means can be confusing, since PrestaShop is used to refer to the company, the project, the repository, the source code and the ZIP archive. I will clear this.

> 1. Create a new Build of PrestaShop, which is a ZIP archive which contains the software

Reviewer 3: That's worth it to provide the details given by Pablo in the article
